---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E1: UI Basics Technical Essay"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2023-09-09
published: true
labels:
  - E1
  - WOD
---

<h3>WOD 3.1: BrowserHistory1</h3>
When I first started BrowserHistory1, I was able to successfully create the files and directory, as well as the headings and subsections for them. However, when I got to the step to create links within each section, I was slightly confused on what that meant, so I had to watch the solution for that part; after an example, I understood the instructions and was able to replicate it. For the first run-through, it took me about 45 minutes as I was still grasping the syntax of HTML and CSS, but my final time was around 8 minutes. After going through it, I got comfortable writing and understanding the code, which allowed me to get below the DNF time. As for advice, I use a Mac while recording with QuickTimePlayer, and sometimes it would stop recording without warning; it helps to free up some storage in anywhere you can to avoid this issue. 

<h3>WOD 3.2: BrowserHistory2</h3>
BrowserHistory2 was a lot more straightforward than the first one and it pertained to CSS. This one took me about 15 minutes in total for my run-throughs and my final time was 5 minutes. While simpler, there were some confusing parts as to which syntax I should be using. I was also confused on how to display the fonts from Google Fonts, so I needed to refer to my notes for that issue. In some of my recording attempts, some of my code didn't display as they were supposed to and, most of the times, they were minor details, such as forgetting the semi-colons; I would say to make sure you are being thorough and consistent while coding.

<h3>WOD 3.3: BrowserHistory3</h3>
BrowserHistory3 was the most challenging WOD because I was extremely unsure on where to start and how to do it, so I needed to refer to the solution first. As I was watching and following along for my first run-through, I familiarized myself with the types of commands that were needed. I had to re-watch the solution a few times while refering to my notes. It took me about an hour and I had to do about 4 run-throughs to fully understand what I was doing; my final recording took me 6 minutes. Despite understanding it, I ran into multiple issues during my attempts regarding formatting. Similar to my advice for BrowserHistory2, re-read the code to ensure there's no minor details left out, such as inputting the closing tags and using the right marks. I definitely learned the most in this WOD, so doing it multiple times solidified my knowledge of commands that were unfamiliar. All in all, my advice is that repetition helps you become comfortable with what you are doing and learn more effectively, so take your time when working on anything.
