---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E3: Preparing for WODs Essay"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2023-09-23
published: true
labels:
  - E3
  - WOD
---
The main goals of WOD 5.1: SmartPhoneProducts1 with variables were to understand referencing variables, as well as using a separate JavaScript file to avoid hard-coding information while it is integrated with a HTML file. For further details of WOD 5.1, visit this <a href="https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/050.variables_data_types/experience-SmartPhoneProducts1_variables.html">link</a>.

WOD 5.1 was relatively easy and straightforward. Utilizing regEx for finding and replacing the elements made this WOD extremely efficient to do. However, ensuring that the regEx is correct is essential to getting it to work, as most of my difficulties were due to mistyping the regEx. In addition, it is important to make sure that the correct variables are being used in all locations, respectively. 

I prepared by doing a few run-throughs of the instructions before watching the solution, which is similar to how I complete my other WODs. Understanding what went wrong and well in each attempt leads to better outcomes. To be better prepared for this WOD and future ones, I would research certain code and instructions, instead of doing it without thought, because it helps with understanding the purpose of doing it. Referring to other resources, such as the internet and your notes, also helps when you are preparing for and attempting the WODs, especially in cases of error.
